- There are often many data points an application needs
in order to operate successfully.
These data points can be as simple as URLs
and other resources and as complex as encryption keys.
While this data is needed for applications to operate,
in the wrong hands, they can be treacherous to a system.
Let's start our discussion with a common use case
and that is connecting to a remote service.
Usually, to connect to a remote service,
you need to store the URL
of that service along with the credentials
or tokens needed to consume that service.
That information is needed by your application at runtime.
Serving that data at runtime can be the challenge.
The attack vector associated
with this should be relatively straightforward.
If you expose the data you need for your system to operate,
the attacker can then use
that same data to mimic you to your backend service.
The attacker can then use the mimic behavior
to manipulate the backend service
and either exploit it or cause it
to make your system exploitable.
Solving these problems are actually very straightforward.
One way to help solve these
issues is through a secret storage service.
Your system needs a way to securely authenticate
to the service, so you still need
to protect that data point.
Then, it can get the data it needs to operate at runtime.
These tools are powerful for your application,
because many of them also provide ways
to rotate your credentials.
Another key takeaway to prevent vulnerabilities
related to data management
is to ensure developers never commit sensitive
information to source control.
Even non-prod systems can provide an
attack vector into your application
or your system as a whole,
so no sensitive information should ever be checked into the
software configuration management or SCM.
Finally, you should consider using certificates
for your systems where there is a client/server component.
Two-way certificate pinning allows your client
to both authenticate with the server side
but also to ensure the validity of the server side.
This protects the internal data of both systems.
This, coupled with secure client-side storage
and digitally signed software updates will allow you
to protect the data your application needs,
its connections to the source systems,
and help ensure valid traffic flows.
Again, we find that much like other vulnerabilities,
these can be mitigated with a little common sense,
but we have to understand that the issues exist.